                                     SoulsRL
                                  User's Manual

0. CONTENTS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. OVERVIEW
2. GAMEPLAY BASICS
3. DEATH AND ESTUS
4. COMMAND LIST
5. INTERFACE


1. OVERVIEW
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SoulsRL is an attempt at mashing up roguelike gameplay and conventions with some
of the ideas of FROM Software's Dark Souls. Specifically, instead of having
permadeath, like most roguelikes, SoulsRL uses the Dark Souls death mechanic,
where you find bonfires, and dying respawns you back at the last bonfire you
visited, but all enemies respawn.


2. GAMEPLAY BASICS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
To move your character around the world, you can use the arrow keys, the numpad,
or vi keys. Using the numpad or vi keys is more efficient, because it gives you
access to diagonal movement.

Here's how the numpad and vi keys work:

                              numpad       vi keys

                              7 8 9         y k u
                               \|/           \|/
                              4-+-6         h-+-l
                               /|\           /|\
                              1 2 3         b j n

SoulsRL is a turn-based game. <Right now, the turn-based-ness of it sucks and a
good, actual, turn-based system will be implemented eventually. For now, you go,
then every other creature goes in an arbitrary order.> <TODO: More on turn
system as it develops.>

To interact with most things, simply "move into" them. For example, when you see
an enemy, move adjacent to them, and then "try to move into their square." This
will cause your character to attack them.

The same goes for opening doors. Opening doors usually takes a full turn, and
you obviously have to open a door before you move through it.

As things happen in the game, messages describing them will appear in your
message log. Messages disappear as soon as you press most any key, so if you
want to go back and read the log of all messages that've come up in the game,
press Shift+M.

Sometimes, in a single round of turns, or between times when you are allowed to
take an action (i.e. if you're stunned), more messages will come up than can fit
in the three-line message output at the top of the screen. When this happens,
the last line of the last message will say "[MORE]" at the end, and you'll have
to press the Spacebar to proceed.


3. DEATH AND ESTUS
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In most roguelikes, when you die, that's it, game over, no second chances. In
SoulsRL, things work a little differently.

First of all, you have an item called the Estus Flask with you at all times.
Quaffing it (q) restores health, but it only has a limited number of uses (five
to start with) before running out. (This is shown on the interface as "EST.")

Throughout the game world, you'll find bonfires, represented by an exclamation
point ("!"). Light unlit bonfires (dark orange) by activating them (moving into
them). Lit bonfires (bright orange on dark yellow) can be rested at.

Resting at a bonfire will restore your HP to maximum and refill your Estus Flask
entirely, but will also respawn every enemy in the game (with the exception of
bosses and a few of the more unique, tougher enemies).

<NOTE: ENEMY RESPAWNING IS NOT IMPLEMENTED YET.>

When you die, you'll respawn at the last bonfire you visited with full HP and
full Estus, but, just as though you rested at the bonfire, all enemies will be
respawned as well. You also lose all of your souls and humanity (but retain all
other items).

However, a bloodstain will appear where you died, containing the souls and
humanity you were carrying when you were killed. Stepping on your bloodstain
will restore your lost souls and humanity.

When you die, though, all previous bloodstains are lost. Therefore, if you were
to die on the way to retrieve your bloodstain, the souls and humanity in that
bloodstain will be lost for good.

<NOTE: BLOODSTAINS ARE NOT IMPLEMENTED YET>

Thus, the game becomes less of a "try and get to the bottom floor of the dungeon
and retrieve the MacGuffin" and more of a "try to push ahead to the next
bonfire, while obtaining enough souls to level up."


4. COMMAND LIST
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This is the list of all commands:

TAB  
  1  
  2  
  3  
  4  
  5  
  6  
  7  
  8  
  9  
  0  
  -  
  =  
  a  
  b  VI KEY
  c  close door
  d  
  e  
  f  
  g  
  h  VI KEY
  i  VI KEY
  j  VI KEY
  k  VI KEY
  l  VI KEY
  m  show map
  n  VI KEY
  o  
  p  
  q  quaff Estus Flask
  r  
  s  
  t  
  u  VI KEY
  v  
  w  
  x  
  y  
  z  
  A  
  B  
  C  
  D  
  E  
  F  
  G  
  H  
  I  
  J  
  K  
  L  
  M  show message log
  N  
  O  
  P  
  Q  quit game
  R  
  S  save game
  T  
  U  
  V  
  W  
  X  
  Y  
  Z  
  <  go up stairs
  >  go down stairs
  ?  show manual